cicd vars

GIT_DEPTH: 0: This variable likely controls the depth of the Git clone operation. When set to 0, it means a full clone of the repository will be performed, 
fetching all commit history and branches.

GIT_STRATEGY: clone: This variable specifies the Git strategy to be used. In this case, it's set to "clone," which means the repository will be cloned 
from its source location.

GIT_FETCH_EXTRA_FLAGS: -f --tags --prune --update-head-ok: These flags are additional options to pass to the git fetch command. Here's what each flag means:

-f: Forces the fetch operation, even if it's not a fast-forward update.
--tags: Fetches all tags from the remote repository.
--prune: Removes any remote tracking references that no longer exist on the remote repository.
--update-head-ok: Allows git fetch to update the remote-tracking branch even if the update is not a fast-forward.
These variables together define how the Git repository will be fetched and used in the given environment. The specific use case and how these variables 
are used might depend on the context, such as a CI/CD pipeline configuration or a build script.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
interruptible: true
  only:
    refs:
      - merge_requests
      - pushes
      - tags
      - web

interruptible: true: This setting likely controls whether the pipeline is interruptible or not. When set to true, it means the pipeline can be interrupted 
or canceled during its execution. This can be useful in scenarios where you want to allow manual intervention to stop a pipeline run if necessary.

only: This section seems to specify the conditions under which the pipeline should be triggered and run. In this case, it looks like the pipeline will be 
triggered for the following events:

merge_requests: Pipeline will run when there are new merge requests.
pushes: Pipeline will run when there are new code pushes to the repository.
tags: Pipeline will run when new tags are added to the repository.
web: It's not entirely clear from the provided snippet what web refers to, but it might indicate that the pipeline can also be triggered through a web 
interface or HTTP request.
In summary, the configuration defines an interruptible pipeline that will be triggered and run for specific events, such as merge requests, code pushes, 
tag additions, and potentially through a web interface. The actual behavior and actions performed by the pipeline will depend on the implementation and the 
specific commands defined within the pipeline configuration.






